# Data

There is a data set provided on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/kemical/kickstarter-projects) I used the second half of it for this analysis and saved it as [ks.csv](ks.csv). The data is separated into the following columns.

## 1. ID

a unique ID used to store within the database system of KickStarter

## 2. name

The name of the project, this has some issues that will be discussed in [Data Cleaning](03_DataCleaning.md)

## 3. category

Creators are allowed to separate their projects into categories to help backers to find them they are listed in this column

## 4. main_category

Generated by the system this is overarching through the entre site. While a category can be cookbook, the main_category would be set to cooking.

## 5. currency

How payment is received such as USD, GBP, or EUR this is also a way to check the region to which the project belongs.

## 6. deadline

A date in which the fundraising phase of the project ends

## 7. goal

How much money they wish to earn (note this casted into the currency)

## 8.  launched

A datetime of when the projected launched

## 9.  pledged

amount pledged by "crowd"

## 10. state

Current condition the project is in 

1. success: the project has launched
2. failed: failed to reach goal
3. cancelled: reached goal but never released
4. live: in the process of being complete (post funding)
5. undefined: data is missing

## 11. backers

The number of people supporting this project

## 12. country

Country of Origin

## 13. usd pledged

amount pledged (forced USD for comparison)

## 14. usd_pledged_real

How much the creator reported seeing

## 15. usd_goal_real

The goal in USD